Move configuration documentation (#514)
transparency-dev/tesseract: cmd/tesseract/README.md

It also contains Dockerfiles to build these binaries, and to
bundle them with the CA roots they accept.

## TesseraCT configuration

This file explains how to configure TesseraCT binaries.

It contains two main parts:

 1. [Chain lifecyle](#chain-lifecycle): with settings impacting how submission
 are processed
 2. [Setup](#setup): with instructions on how to setup TesseraCT resources

You can find information about implementation-specific settings in each
corresponding subdirectory.

### Chain lifecycle

When TesseraCT receives a new chain submssion, it is first
[filtered](#chain-filtering), and is then sent to the Tessera library where it goes
through the [Append Lifecycle](#append-lifecycle).
The chain may be [deduplicated using TesseraCT's and Tessera's antispam features](#antispam).

#### Chain filtering

Chains accepted by TesseraCT can be filtered by setting the following flags:

- `root_pem_file`: Path to a file containing root certificates that are

> acceptable to the log. Chains MUST be signed by one of the roots included in

Reviewer: Might be worth flipping the sense around on all these bullets so they all primarily talk in terms of rejecting (or accepting if you prefer)?

```suggestion
acceptable to the log. Chains not originating from one of the roots in this file will be rejected.
```

this file.
- `reject_expired`: If true, TesseraCT rejects expired certificates.
- `reject_unexpired`: If true, TesseraCT rejects certificates that are either
currently valid or not yet valid.

> - `ext_key_usage`: A list of comma separated [Extended Key Usages (EKU) from x509](https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/x509#ExtKeyUsage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ext_key_usage`: A list of comma separated [Extended Key Usages (EKU) from x509](https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/x509#ExtKeyUsage).
Certificates which DO NOT include one or more of these EKUs will be rejected. If empty, no EKU 
filtering is applied.
```

Certificates MUST include one or more of these EKUs to be accepted. If empty, no
filtering is applied.
- `reject_extension`: A comma separated list of X.509 extension OIDs, in dotted
string form (e.g. `2.3.4.5`). Certificates that include one or more of these extensions
will be rejected.
- `not_after_start`: Start of the range of acceptable NotAfter values,
inclusive. Leaving this unset or empty implies no lower bound to the range.
RFC3339 UTC format, e.g: `2024-01-02T15:04:05Z`.
- `not_after_limit`: Cut off point of NotAfter dates - only notAfter dates
strictly _before_ `not_after_limit` will be accepted. Leaving this unset or empty
means no upper bound on the accepted range. RFC3339 UTC format, e.g:
`2024-01-02T15:04:05Z`.
- `accept_sha1_signing_algorithms`: If true, allow chains that use SHA-1 based
signing algorithms. This flag is a temporary solution to allow chains submitted

> by Chrome's Merge Delay Monitor Root. It will eventually be removed and such algorithms
> will be disallowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by Chrome's Merge Delay Monitor Root. It will eventually be removed and chains using such algorithms
will be rejected.
```

#### Append lifecycle

> Tessera stages entries submitted via `Add`, then [sequences them in a batch](#sequencing-batch)
> to assign them with a durable sequence number. Asynronously from this, entries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tessera stages entries submitted via `Add`, then [sequences them in a batch](#sequencing-batch),
assigning them a durable sequence number. Asynchronously to this, entries
```

> are first integrated into the log (i.e durably written into the log together with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are integrated into the log (i.e durably written into the log together with
```

hashes commiting to them), and then [published every checkpoint interval](#checkpoint-interval)

> (i.e a checkpoint which index covers these entries is published). TesseraCT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(i.e a checkpoint which commits to these new entries is published). TesseraCT
```

> can [wait for the full process to be done](#publication-awaiter) before sending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can optionally [wait for the full process to be done](#publication-awaiter) before sending
```

responses to clients.

##### Sequencing Batch

The `batch_max_age` and `batch_max_size` flags control the maximum age and number
of entries in a single [sequencing batch](https://github.com/transparency-dev/tessera?tab=readme-ov-file#sequencing).
These flags affect the overall performance of TesseraCT. The correct values for
these flags depend on multiple factors, such as the driver used, the number
of TesseraCT servers or their steady QPS rate. Defaults values have been chosen sensibly
and should be fine to get started with, but we invite you to experiment with values
tailored to your setup.

##### Checkpoint Interval

> The `checkpoint_interval` flag controls the interval duration between two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `checkpoint_interval` flag controls the duration between two
```

> checkpoint publications. Due to constraints imposed by underlying storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subsequent checkpoint publications. Due to constraints imposed by underlying storage
```

systems, this interval has a lower limit. Tessera ensures that the configured
interval is larger than any such lower limit during the initialization process.

| Backend | Minimum Permitted Checkpoint Interval (ms) |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| AWS     | 1000                                       |
| GCP     | 1200                                       |

Note that when used in conjunction with `enable_publication_awaiter`, `checkpoint_interval`

> directly impacts `add-*` requests response time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly impacts `add-*` request response time.
```

##### Publication Awaiter

The `enable_publication_awaiter` flag enables [Tessera's publication awaiter](https://github.com/transparency-dev/tessera?tab=readme-ov-file#synchronous-publication):

> when this flag is on, TesseraCT responds to `add-*` requests only after a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when this flag is on, TesseraCT sends responds to `add-*` requests only after a
```

`checkpoint` committing to that entry has been published. When this flag is off,
TesseraCT responses to `add-*` requests as soon as Tessera has durably assigned a

> sequence number to the corresponding entry. Such entries entries would then get integrated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sequence number to the corresponding entry. Such entries entries will then get integrated
```

> and published asynchronously, which might happen before TesseraCT responses to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and published asynchronously, which may or may not happen before TesseraCT responds to the
`add-*` request.
```

`add-*` request are sent, or after.

> While this flag provides extra guarantees to clients, it will likely lead to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this flag provides stronger guarantees to clients, it will likely lead to a
```

> lower a log throughput, an increased number of open sockets open, and of RAM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lower a log throughput, an increased number of open sockets open, and RAM
usage. Make sure that the `http_deadline` flag leaves enough time for requests
```

used. Make sure that the `http_deadline` flag leaves enough time for requests
to be fully processed.

This flag is on by default.

#### Antispam

The `pushback_max_antispam_lag`, `pushback_max_dedupe_in_flight` and
`inmemory_antispam_cache_size` flags control how [TesseraCT's Antispam feature](/docs/architecture.md#antispam)
works, which itself is built on top of [Tessera's Antispam](https://github.com/transparency-dev/tessera?tab=readme-ov-file#antispam)
capabilities. It is composed of three main steps:

> 1. A process **asynchronous** with `add-*`, populating the antispam databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A process **asynchronous** with `add-*`, populates the antispam database
with entries integrated into the log. This is handled by Tessera.
```

with entry indices as the log grows. This is handled by Tessera.

> 2. A call **synchronous** with **all** `add-*` to the antispam database to
> identify if the entry submitted is a duplicate of a previous one. This is
> handled by Tessera.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A call **synchronous** with **all** `add-*` to the antispam database identifies whether the submission is a duplicate of a previously accepted entry. This is
handled by Tessera.
```

3. If this entry is a duplicate, a last call **synchronous** with this duplicate

> `add-*` call fetches the entry from the log to extract the information required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`add-*` call fetches the previous entry from the log to extract the information required
```

> to build its SCT. This is handled by TesseraCT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to recreate the previously issued SCT. This is handled by TesseraCT.
```
